CHAPTER 1: THE LOST TEMPLE OF ALAK’ALAR
Level: 5–8
BACKGROUND
Within the far reaches of the Kingdom of Alenian resides the farming village of Nenyrm, set upon
the doorstep of the Abormark Mountains almost
at a crossroads of kingdoms. North of the nearby
Shal’Uran river lies the reclusive kingdom of Iaur and
to the south you’ll find Killeth’s Bane and the Darrowden Hills, places to avoid at all costs
To those that live and work tirelessly in Nenyrm
the harvest and what it brings are life. They firmly
believe that trouble will not find you should you not
seek it. However of late that mantra has been tested
and will soon be broken. Farms on the outskirts of
town have been found ransacked, the residents gone
and few clues left. Understandably the town is terrified, though they don’t understand the events that
are being set in motion for this area was rife with battle and destruction during the Age of Desolation and
many broken cities, temples and bones lie beneath
the soil, some of which make this area so fertile and
rife for farming.

ADVENTURE HOOKS

The town is terrified that something is taking those
that reside in the area and that soon those in the
town will start to disappear. The town council has
sent for help to the local Alenian Town but that is a
weeks travel on foot to the west and they have their
own problems to face.
Though the townsfolk are a tough lot they are
understandably very superstitious and eager to have
this problem dealt with. They have sent some of their
own though they didn’t return and would rather pay
some passing adventurers to find and save those taken, and if not, at least deal with the problem once and
for all.

RUMOURS
Rumours abound for any that choose to talk to the
townsfolk as is often common in remote and superstitious areas like this. These can range from:
•
•
•
•

Spectors watching the ancient bridge to the north
and the ruins of Shal’uran.
Witches and animals with glowing red eyes seen
in the nearby Firnost Forest.
Glowing lights that look like eyes upon the
plateaus of the lower mountains.
Encounters with strangers and animals that have
been flash frozen at the base of the
mountain and upon the mist shrouded edge of
the Darrowden Hills.

While most of these rumours lead to other possible
adventures at the DMs discretion (See info on Lenwir

for knowledge about the local areas). The lights witnessed upon the plateaus are the one that pertain to
this adventure.

ADVENTURE SUMMARY

The adventure likely unfolds in the following sequence.
The characters meet with the village elders who
hear about their woes and talk to the villagers about
the rumours before deciding on their course of action
(or have already done so if you’d prefer to start after
that).
The characters go to the houses of the missing
people and find clues leading towards the mountains.
They climb the mountains or follow the tracks as
night sets in and see the glow the people were talking
about to be the cold light fires of some ice goblins.
They deal with the goblins, but find their den was
built in front of a cave with a well trodden path. They
enter to find an ancient temple with a basilisk lair in
the entrance and the remains of the villagers fed to
the basiliks by the cave mouth.
They deal with the basilisk before entering the
ancient temple, dealing with those that remain within
and the traps before reaching the centre of the temple, where they remove the Eye of Laki and escape the
crumbling temple.

INTRODUCTION
Read:

The village of Nenyrm sits in the shadow of the
Arbormark Mountains. Their snow covered peaks
a constant sight to any of its residents who take
the time to look up from their farm work and their
verdant fields. The scent of the ocean is a
constant companion, carried down from the
northern coast of Lenwir on a chill breeze. The
villagers know naught of the world beyond, bar
the dangers of the great mountains and vast
deserts to the south. Here among the gentle rolling foothills they stay, rarely venturing forth and
rarely do strangers come calling. Though happenstance has brought you to this village during
the turning of the seasons. The vibrant fields
have faded as the villagers prepare for an early
winter. Cold winds and dark nights fast approach
so close to the mountains. To add to the growing
restlessness, villagers have been vanishing from
nearby farms.

CHAPTER 1: THE LOST TEMPLE OF ALAK ALAR
Created and written by Yerran Moss

1

1

The odd woodsman failing to return home is not so unusual, but when far flung farmhouses are discovered
empty, spoiled and bloodied. That is a new spectacle
indeed. So much so that the village elders have called
all those that live amongst the fields, to shelter behind
the walls of the village come nightfall. Lest they too
suffer a mysterious and terrible fate.
It seems your arrival at Nenyrm may not have been
by coincidence, but rather by the design of one of the
gods, for they are but simple folk and in need of the
help of brave adventurers.
As the sun sets for the night and the villagers board
up their homes and close the wooden gates you find
yourself on the eastern road out of town. The Arbormark mountains rising before you, their black shapes
darker than the winter night against which they rest.
As the evening plunges into darkness two things
cross your mind; the first being the villagers promise
of a hefty reward, one that you find doubtful having
seen the way they live their simple lives; the second
being the pinpricks of light barely visible against the
tall mountains, glittering and dancing in the cool
breeze.

THE SURROUNDING AREA
The hills immediately around Nenyrm are not fraught
with danger and should the adventurers wish to
explore the northern areas and Firnost Forest, they
will find little challenge in the beasts, wolves and the
occasional hag, intent on luring them to her cottage
for dinner.
However, should they journey farther afield into
the Abormark Heights, northwards over the Shal’Uran
Bridge or into the Darrowden Hills they will encounter
more deadly and dangerous creatures, though those
journeys will take longer than a day and be beyond
the scope of this adventure. Should they explore these
areas they will likely meet the minions of Mab amongst
the Abormark Heights, ancient sepctors around the
Sahl’Uran Ruins and agents and monsters of the
Shadowfell within the Darrowden Hills, all with different hooks for alternate adventurers.

2

PART I: THE ICE GOBLINS
Farmhouses

The farmhouses will likely be the first stop for the
characters, a place to investigate what happened to
those that were taken. Read

A cool winter breeze breathes a sighing wind into
the fields amongst the abandoned farmhouses
upon the east of town. Their unlit exteriors look
more dilapidated you know them to be , suffering
from an absence of the life they would usually
contain.
Around you tall stalks of wheat shake with the
gentle rattle of their ripened harvest. The only
sound in an otherwise silent night.
Investigating the houses will reveal little more than
villagers’ clothes, objects and kitchenware scattered
around. There are also traces of blood and evidence of
a struggle with a low Perception or Investigation check.
A high Perception or Investigation check will reveal
blood stains and footprints leading out of the farmhouse and into the eastern foothills, the blood soon
giving way to drag marks and small booted feet among
the soft mud..
A high Perception check while outside will indicate a
light crunching sound coming from one of the fields,
though its true direction will be impossible to discern,
and an uncomfortable feeling of being watched.
Should the adventurers seek to investigate further
they will find nothing in the fields, getting lost among
the chest height wheat. Following the trail will take
them towards the foothills, though only fresh small
booted footprints will be evident with a high Sruvival
or Investigation check as the blood will have been worn
or washed away by the weather over the last few days.
The path will start to climb as the characters reach
the edge of the farms and the fringes of the mountains
foothills.

CHAPTER 1: THE LOST TEMPLE OF ALAK ALAR
Created and written by Yerran Moss

The Ice Goblin Camp

The rocky road begins to ascend, and the waving lights
are revealed to be torches, dancing in the wind. The
sparsely wooded area offers little cover on approach
and the moon is high in the relatively clear sky, lighting up the hillside.
If the adventurers followed the lights before investigating the farmhouse, they will arrive at the Ice Goblin
Camp in the hills, but will likely raise an alarm, unless
they stealth on the final approach and avoid the two
sentries. If they follow the tracks from the farmhouse
the ice goblin that ventured down to abduct more humans will have warned the others of the approaching
adventurers and be ready to spring an ambush at the
top of the path.
If the players manage to disable or make their way
around the ice goblin watchmen, they will be able to
spring an ambush on the camp. Read the following as
the camp comes into view, adjusting for what happened on their approach:

The path stops and you step out onto a stone plateau with little way for tree cover. 6–8 crudly constructed wooded huts sit around a central banner.
A dark blue cloth with three white shards of ice
pointing outwards hang from it. Several small
fire, their flames a chilling blue glow, lay haphazardly around the camp. Behind which looms a
cave entrance, more akin to a black scar across
the grey mountains. A dozen or so blue skinned
goblins move around the camp, occasionally wandering into the cave and out again. A Ice Goblin
Chieftain stands at the centre of the camp gazing
at the banner that hangs there.

The goblins will attack on sight. They are extremely
hostile and number 12 in the camp, 2 scouts, a chieftan and a shaman. Ice goblins are chaotic evil with
stats akin to normal goblins but with a natural AC of
14, magic weapons and immunity to cold and necrotic
damage. They were servants of Queen Mab who have
fled her service and her kingdom growing at the centre
of the Arbormark Mountains and have set up a temporary camp atop the plateau, drawn here by something
else.

PART II: THE CAVE
After the battle, an investigation of the camp reveals
little in the way of reward bar a few ice encrusted metal weapons, some small wealth and a carved obsidian
idol of a beautiful and horrifying Fey Queen. The idol
possesses a small amount of magical power, but what
it is is difficult to discern. Any checks of the goblins
bodies find a patchwork of scars across their skin and
a medicine check of 15 reveals something buried beneath the skin of one of their wrists, shaped like some
kind of thorn manacle, the spikes occasionally protruding from the skin and leaking a smokey darkness.
After the goblins have been dead for five minutes these
disappate entirely into smoke.
Investigation of the huts and bags around the huts
show a small quantity of human clothes, belongings
and food pilfered from the nearby farms.
Now that the adventurers are closer, they can see that
the cave tunnel stretches deeper than previous investigations would have revealed. The cave mouth itself
seems to suck in the air rather than expel it and the
adventurers feel a growing unease standing before it.
The mouth of the cave shows evidence of years of passage, its stone floor stained with a dark crimson.
Entering the tunnel with light reveals an ancient,
crafted corridor cut into the mountain, pockmarked,
and scarred with age. The original masonry barely
recognizable and unidentifiable. The crimson trail
leads the characters downwards into the mountain
and a further Investigation check shows movements of
a larger creature through the passage, whether recent
or not is impossible to discern.
The path opens into a wide room covered in blood
stains, but not bones. At the back rests, a crude stone
altar before an entirely crimson wall. Every inch of the
chamber wall is scrawled with runes, symbols, and
markings. Investigation of the marks reveal little to no
information, except for two; Infernal and Elvish.
The Elvish reads as:

‘The key lies within and is easily found, paint
thee with it and my magic will astound, this may
sound like an easy task, but be wary what you
yearn, as for what you give. I shall return.’
The Infernal reads:
‘The key is found with your head, use
the key to paint me red, be aware of what you
spurn, for what you give shall be returned.’

CHAPTER 1: THE LOST TEMPLE OF ALAK ALAR
Created and written by Yerran Moss

3

3

If the adventurers do not possess anyone that can read
these languages, they can use the clues around the
cave to discern what they must do to remove the wall
before them.
The Wall of Blood requires fresh blood to bypass it.
It will however produce an exact clone of whoever or
whatever owns the blood as a hostile agent who will
immediately attack the party. Should the adventurers
use their blood a clone with the exact same strengths
and spells will appear to fight them. Should the characters use the blood of one of the slain ice goblins it
will reproduce an ice goblin, if a creature is thrown roll
a D8 to see how many droplets of blood touch the wall
and that is how many of the creatures will appear.
As the blood touches the wall there is a groan and
all of the dark stains on the floor and walls start to
move, sliding along and through the stones as if the
floor is transparent, until they accumulate upon the
centre of the wall and a blood clone appears.

ACT III: THE LOST TEMPLE
The clone(s) die, exploding into blood and causing temporary blindness in nearby adventurers who fail a 14
DC Constitution save.

1. BASALISKS’ LAIR
The smooth walled tunnel falls away into darkness on one side, the torch light lapping at the
corners of a natural cave. As the light spills
across the room, the reflective surface of small
pools light up the bones, half devoured carcasses
and torn clothes of humans and other animals.
At the far end of the cavern a dark overhang hides
dozens of deep green, scaled eggs.

Should the adventurers choose to fight the basilisks
and plunder the lair they will find several basilisk
eggs, some bones and small idols left by the ice Goblins.

2. SHATTERED BRIDGE

The tunnel continues down past the lair and opens
into an enormous cavern.

The upper reaches of the chamber disappear into
darkness and an ancient temple looms across the
chasm, cut directly into a stone monolith beyond
a rotting wooden bridge. The bones of a gargantuam creature trails from the side of the terrace
and over into the blackness below. A dry staleness
permeates the air, dust and rubble covering almost every inch of the burned, pockmarked floor.

As the clone (last clone) dies, their blood flows
back towards the wall and it recedes seamlessly into the cave before slamming home with an
earth-shaking crash. The following silence is
deafening as a black void stares out. Light flickers
at the edges of the cave opening and the trail
of blood continues down into the dark. A drip
echoes up the tunnel as does the moan of a foreboding wind.
The adventurers have a quick decision to make, either
journey into the cave that beings to spirals down into
the earth after 30ft or stay where they are and try to
discern what lies beyond.
What they choose to do will effect the next interaction because the stone door crashing open has
signalled something deep below that food has been
offered. A Basilisk, the ice goblins sought to capture
and train. They have been summoning it through the
Wall of Blood and leaving offering of human villagers
on the alter.
If the characters wait the Basilisk will emerge and
fight them in the cramped confines of the cavern. If
they journey downwards immediately, they can slip
past the Basilisks’ layer before it emerges.
(1. See Map).
There are two Basilisks in total, though one stays
in the lair to defend the eggs. Should the adventurers
venture in, it will strike from its hidden position above
the cave mouth. Should the basilisks be alerted the
players presence they will attack in a bid to defend
their young. The adventurers can attempt to slip by
with a DC 15 Stealth Check.

4

The adventurers stand on a stone platform with a
small guard room to the side. On the other side lie
the bones of a gargantuan creature, most of which
trail over the side of the platform and into the endless
chasm below.
The desiccated body of an armoured human rests
to the side. Further investigation reveals he has a +1
silver sword at his waist, with the carving ‘Renkidu
- my life for light’ on its hilt. His outstretched hand
holds an intricately carved necklace, a study and identification of which reveal a Spirit Well.
In his other hand he protectively holds an Obsidian Stone. Investigation reveals a warm flame trapped
at the centre, but under further inspection you find
you cannot focus on it. Identification and studies of
it reveal nothing and anyone who is shown the stone
cannot discern its purpose. The player has no way of
knowing but it is however a prison for a powerful devil,
should the characters choose to take it, it will most
likely break and release the demon at some moment of
great stress (battle or otherwise).

CHAPTER 1: THE LOST TEMPLE OF ALAK ALAR
Created and written by Yerran Moss

Spirit Well

Unique Item

2 daily charges		

Requires Attunment

4. EXARCHS QUARTERS
The door creaks open on rusted hinges and your
light laps at shattered wood and torn books that
litter the ground. Everything now smashed beyond recognition.

This necklace, shaped like a small
lantern emits a cold blue light in a 10ft
radius when held.
Shining it on remains causes ghostly
illusions of the dead creature(s) to
manifest.

Investigation checks reveal the material of the broken
items here is of a better quality than that in other
parts of the temple. The inner door is still locked however and can also be accessed with the keys.
Further study reveals the Exarch Journals. These
are written in the ancient Aarakocran language and
can be taken to their city should the characters wish
to discern them. If the character has some way to read
from them, they still struggle as much of it is coded.
However, they can glean that the Exarch is the mortal embodiment of ‘Laki - The Justiciar God’ and that
this temple was hidden as a way to protect an ancient
artefact during the invasion of the world.

This illusion hovers above the remains
and acts out the last minute of the
creatures’ life. This effect is silent and
shows the dead as they were in life,
depicting any items they carried.
It does not, however reveal any others
who may have been present at the time
of the their death.
Warning
Continued exposure to the spirit world
can cause lasting effects.
As the adventurers pick up the lantern the blue

light touching the corpse of ‘Renkidu’ forms mist
around his body. Closer inspection reveals a faint
ghostly shape over the corpse. Should the characters
use the lantern on the corpse of ‘Renkidu’ they will see
him holding the lantern up and blood falling from his
eyes staring towards the monster’s bones. Should the
characters wish to see the monster’s death, they must
pass a DC 15 Wisdom save or gain ‘Madness.’
On the pockmarked floor of the room is cut a giant
rune. Each of the lines on the floor has hundreds of
miniscule runes carved inside it. This is a rune of
forbiddance and an Arcana of 19 reveals it for what it
is. No teleportation, planar gates or means of magical
transportation can be taken within the temple.
In the guard post are some keys amongst the shattered and rotting debris but nothing else of value.
The bridge into the temple is in similar condition
and creaks when walked upon. Walking across it has
a low chance of breaking a wooden board, but a higher
chance to make a lot of sound. The doors to the temple
lie ajar and are covered in hundreds of battle scars. A
statue stands to the side of the gate, looking out with
defiance and another on the other side is broken.

3. ARMOURY

It be opened with the keys found in the guardhouse
and holds only standard silvered weapons (daggers,
arrows, bolts, spears, maces, swords), mostly ancient
and decrepid as well as chainmail and plate armour.

A thick layer of dust coats the rotted wooden
shelves, and dozens of finely crafted weapons litter the floor where their shelving has failed them,
torchlight reflecting of their silvery surfaces.

5. TEMPLE HALL

While moving through the caverns high perceptions
will reveal something watching, and extremely high
perception will reveal movement high up in the temple ceiling. The rooms are dark and can be better lit
by lighting the braziers that are placed around the
temple, though their light will not illuminate the high
ceilings. Within the main hall the is a statue of the god
Laki, who protects and is worshipped in this temple.

6. TEMPLE QUARTERS
The doors are shattered inwards, as if torn apart
and blood smears, darkened to black over time
trail from the soiled robeds and broken furniture
within.
These rooms contain nothing of value beyond broken
rotted wood, torn soiled robes and a single cracked
pewter charm to Laki.

7. DINING ROOM
Several overturned long tables and benches
rest on the floor before an empty fireplace, as if
thrown haphazardly. More stains coat the floors
and walls and broken dishes gleam from the darkened floor in the light.
An investigation of this room reveals what used to be a
dining room of sorts with blood trails leading into the
kitchen (8). The kitchen has a Bone Devil in it, sitting
atop a pile of decrepit bones. If the adventurers alert
the bone devil to their presence by either creaking the
wooden bridge or through other sounds it will come
out and try to ambush the party in tandem with the
half a dozen Spined Devils that were hiding in the

CHAPTER 1: THE LOST TEMPLE OF ALAK ALAR
Created and written by Yerran Moss

5

5

THE UPPER TEMPLE

1

8

3

2

6
7

4

5

THE LOWER TEMPLE

10

11

9

12

6

CHAPTER 1: THE LOST TEMPLE OF ALAK ALAR
Created and written by Yerran Moss

high cieling of the Temple Hall.

8. TEMPLE ATRIUM
Before the steps to the Lower Temple rests a hidden
rune, revealed by a successful Investigation check, or
detect magic.

Across the floor is carved another rune, almost
indistinguishable from the floor bar the occasional pulses of dim golden light. Instead your eyes
are drawn to the charred black outlines of horrifying shapes against the wall around the stairways
entrance.
The rune holds a powerful spell where any of evil
hearts or intent that step upon it will be vaporised.
Adventurers can de-activate it through great difficulty. Should they not choose to deactivate it and step
on it, it will only hurt those with hostile/evil intent
(determinable by the DM) or with corruption (if playing
corruption rules).
The Damage of the spell determined by corruption
is shown below:

Corruption

Damage

1–5

None

6–10

3d6 radiant

11–15

6d6 radiant

15+

9d6 radiant

The rune also removes 1 corruption point from all that
pass through it, regardless if it does damage or not.

The charred black marks around the wall are demons
and devils that tried to enter and were incinerated.
The stairs downwards are likewise littered with
bones of the defenders of the temple, most still suited
in cracked and bent plate armour. Investigation reveals
they are several different species.

ACT IV: EXARCH’S PRISON
The Lower Temple bears the scars of a bloody battle.
Bodies, weapons and makeshift cots that once sheltered those that sought safety here litter the broken
room, though there are no signs of creatures. The
temples defenses, though formidable, seemed unable
to keep the horde of monsters from their sanctuary.

9. THE INNER TEMPLE

much of the cieling and walls, a great light holding a
darkness at bay.
Those in the light are from many races, their faces
so detailed they seem almost lifelike. The dark contains demons and devils, their tortured faces screaming with terrible glee. The longer you starethe more the
creatures seem to swirl and move.

10. THE LIBRARY
Bookshelves, laden with the colourful spines of
dozens of books take up much of this corner of
the temple, with some simple writing desks and
chests.
Bookshelves and broken chests stand against the wall
in the vestibule as well as a small basalt idol. A quick
inspection reveals several health potions in the broken
chests, and some writings again in an ancient script.

11. THE STUDY
Two statues of unknown creatures stare down at
you as you enter. Two once comfortable couches lie
before a massive unlit fireplace, atop which rests a
regal picture of a godly Aarakocra, not marred with
the dust, debris and age of the rest of the temple.
The adventurers can detect magic and try and deactivate the two Stone Golems that stand guard before
entering the room, but upon entering they activate
and attack until destroyed or until the Exarch trapped
in the painting is released by destroying it.
As the adventurer’s stare at the painting it moves
slightly. An Arcana check reveals the presence of
magic. Detect Magic/Evil reveals the spell holding the
painting are evil. Burning or destorying the painting
releases the trapped Exarch’s spirit.
Upon release the Exarch’s spirit appears as an
ephemeral ghost to thank the adventurers. He will
communicate telepathically, though his memory is
limited in his current form. He will inform the adventurers of the battle for the temple, the wards activated
to keep evil out and the purpose of the temple, which
is to safeguard an ancient relic. It will also reveal it
was imprisoned there by a devil lord as a form of torture to break his will and have him open the door.
The exarch will lead the party to the door behind
the alter and open it with a flash of light. The Exarch
will guide the characters down the stairs into the final
chamber.

Your light fills the temple as if propelled by some
other agent. The intricate artwork and golden
filigree is shattered and torn. Broken pews fill the
room and a cracked marble alter lies at the front of
the hall. Though your eyes are drawn to the bones
of ancient defenders and those that sheltered here
scattered across the floor, twisted and broken.

A great door lies behind the alter but it’s locked and
has no discernible way to open it. A History check
show what can be seen in the mosaics that adorn

12. THE GUARDIAN CHAMBER
A deep chasm fills the centre of the great chamber,
the sound of the water echoing from far below. A
bridge stretches out onto a platform at the centre of
the chasm, littered with broken bones and shattered
skeletons. Upon the platform rests an ancient alter
against which is slumped an inhuman skeleton.

CHAPTER 1: THE LOST TEMPLE OF ALAK ALAR
Created and written by Yerran Moss

7

7

The Exarch gestures at the bodies and informs the
adventurers that this was their last stand. Immediately against the alters are other, bigger bones, clearly
demonic.
Broken statues line the bridge, mostly shattered, or
sheared off. The posture of the remaining statues reveals a sense of purity and power unbeknownst to you.
Read the extract below if the characters investigate or
try to percieve the statues or alter:

As you stare upon the wonder of the statues your
gaze lingers for several seconds. Something draws
you in and you cannot look away, the shadows in the
cavern ebb as you catch a glimpse through time at
their splendour. You feel the strength return to your
body as fatigue drains away. The feeling of purity in
your heart and for a moment you feel the holy power
in your veins.
As quickly as it came it retreats and you feel the
darkness close in. It seems closer than before and a
shiver passes through you as the cold of the chamber
seems to bite that little bit more. You unconsciously
pull your cloak closer and feel diminished within. The
cold deep crashing of the water far below, remind you
once again of where you really are.
The Exarch leads the adventurers to the centre of
the platform and indicate the text on the alter. The
alter allows anyone who is pure to take the item held
within the hole. Anyone with evil intent or a corruption level 5+ must make a DC Constitution 18 save
to pull out the item. A fail will release a radiant blast
dealing 8d6 radiant damage to the one who took the
object. The text on the alter reads:
Only those of truest heart, may take from here
and depart. For when again the darkness comes,
and full of evil the world becomes, this power
will grant you light, to blind and burn demonic
blight.

if characters keep them and become attuned to them,
they can regain the power over time through further
tasks). Both weapons are silvered.

The Warhammer +2, with 2d6 bonus radiant damage on hit.
The Shield +3 AC, activating it creates a 15ft magical barrier,
blocking spells and demons/devils from entering for 1min.

Should the adventurer’s defeat the devils they can
leave the temple the way they entered all traps have
been disabled and any power the temple had has been
removed by the removal of the artefact held there. The
removal of the power source however now makes the
temple vulnerable and to usher the players out further portals can open to spew demons that harry the
adventurers as they flee.

TO CONTINUE:

Should the adventurers wish to continue from this
point it can be continued in several ways, all ways require either returning to the village to claim the reward
and then journeying north to Aol to complete:
•
•
•

Either way the demons will give chase and seek to take
the artefact from them every step of the journey.

THE EYE OF LAKI
The orb taken from the temple is a legendary item.
However, it’s power is limited and can only be restored
in the sun spire at the top of Aol where it sits offering
protection against all in the city and those that enter,
giving the Aarakocra more power and strength in the
area as well as earning their good favour.
Without this permanent setting it only contains
three charges should the adventurers decide not to
take it back, after that it will be depleted and not be
usable until returned to Aol.

Once the item has been removed laughter will
echo around the chamber and from within the depths
of the chasm and two Horned Devils will fly up. They
will try and take the item from the characters, however
before they can act the High Exarch will tell the adventurers to take the item to the Aarakocran city north
over the mountains. He will then step forward and cast
two powerful spells. Holding his hammer out to the
demons to cast ‘Greater Smite’ and holding his shield
over his head to cast ‘Aura of Warding’:

8

Find a translation for the Exarch’s journal and
learn more of the history during the cataclysm and
subsequent invasion.
Return the artefact to the Aarakocra in Aol where
it will protect them and be safe.
To reveal the location of the temple to the world
and help others replenish it.

THE EYE OF LAKI

Wonderous Item, Requires Attunment
5 Charges - after which it can only be restored in the
sun spire at the top of Aol.
Activated by holding it above your head and channeling some kind of magic into it. The Eye blossoms to life
like a powerful sun for a minute as long as the player
is holding it and concentrating. It has the following
effects:

Aura of Warding – blocks all hostile spells in a 15 ft radius.
Greater Smite – 8d8 radiant damage to both demons.

- Blinds all Demons and Devils within
100 ft that fail a DC 18 Dexterity save to avert
their eyes.

The Exarch will vanish as his spells are cast his huge
Warhammer and Shield falling to the ground as physical objects. Both provide additional bonuses in this
fight but afterwards lose their magical ability (however

- Causes Demons and Devils skin to burn, removing all
resistances and immunities and causing vulnerability to
all attacks.

CHAPTER 1: THE LOST TEMPLE OF ALAK ALAR
Created and written by Yerran Moss

- Burns away any illusions, invisibility, magic means of
concealment or shape Employed by anyone, exposing
them for what they really are.

